Logging pages for Elixir and Node (#859)
appsignal/appsignal-docs: source/posts/logging/platforms/integrations/nodejs.mdx

---
title: "Logging From Node.js"
sup: "BETA"
---

<Notice>

🧪 AppSignal Logging is currently only available to Beta Testers. If you think your
application is a good candidate, [send us an
email](mailto:support@appsignal.com?subject=Logging%20beta)!

</Notice>

## Configure Package

<Notice variant="warning">

This feature is designed to work from AppSignal for Node.js integration v3 and greater.

</Notice>

> To use logging with your AppSignal integration for Node.js, you first need to install the `implement-logging-feature` branch of the AppSignal package. To do this, open your application's `Package.json`, and find the `appsignal` package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use logging with your AppSignal integration for Node.js, you first need to install the `implement-logging-feature` branch of the AppSignal package. To do this, open your application's `package.json`, and find the `@appsignal/nodejs` package:
```

```js
{
  "dependencies": {
    // ...

>     "appsignal": "^3.0.0" // Don't mind the version as long as you use > 3.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "@appsignal/nodejs": "^3.0.0" // Don't mind the version as long as you use > 3.0
```

    // ...
  }
}
```

and replace the line with the following code:

```js
{
  "dependencies": {
    // ...

>     "appsignal": "github:appsignal/appsignal-nodejs#implement-logging-feature"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "@appsignal/nodejs": "github:appsignal/appsignal-nodejs#implement-logging-feature"
```

    // ...
  }
}
```

## Configure Logging

<Notice variant="warning">
  ⚠️ Log data must not contain personal data, such as names, email addresses,
  etc. It is your responsibility to ensure this data is filtered out before
  being sent to AppSignal, and when identifying a person is necessary that your
  application uses alternative forms of identification, such as a user ID, hash,
  or pseudonym.
</Notice>

### Instancing the Logger

To get the logger you need to have the AppSignal client at hand and set it up with the `.logger()` function. It accepts two arguments: `group` and `severityThreshold`. `severityThreshold` Is an optional argument and if not provided it defaults to `info`.

```js
const { Appsignal } = require("@appsignal/nodejs");

const client = new Appsignal({
  active: true,
  name: "<YOUR APPLICATION NAME>",
  pushApiKey: "<YOUR API KEY>",
});

> 
> const logger = client.logger("app", "debug");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
module.exports = { appsignal: client };
```
Part of comment below.

Reviewer 2: Let's avoid asking users to export the client, and instead ask them to use `Appsignal.client` (or for this use case, `Appsignal.logger`) from the global object, as is done in other parts of the 3.0 documentation:

```js
# app.js -- NOT appsignal.cjs
import { Appsignal } from "@appsignal/nodejs";

logger = Appsignal.logger("groupname")
logger.debug("blajah")

Reviewer: That also looks okay with me. That way we don't have to ask users to export and require it later. But we do need to change it to create the logger in the file where's it's used.

Author: True, let's promote the usage of the globally stored client.

Author: I rephrased stuff a bit with your suggestions here: https://github.com/appsignal/appsignal-docs/pull/859/commits/674ab78b360c5ff8851de870b213894fbebfd8d2

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me (modulo the other comment)

```

### Usage

There are five severity levels available `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error` each of them with its own function with the same name. These functions accept two arguments `message` and `attributes`. Attributes is used for metadata and is optional.

```js

> logger.info("User logged in", { user_id: 123 });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// In other places of your app
const { logger } = require("./appsignal.cjs");

logger.info("Log message line");
logger.info("User logged in", { user_id: 123 });
```

If users need to access the client we either need to export it or mention a way to access the global accessor.

</Notice>

## Configure Package

<Notice variant="warning">

This feature is designed to work from AppSignal for Node.js integration v3 and greater.

</Notice>

To use logging with your AppSignal integration for Node.js, you first need to install the `implement-logging-feature` branch of the AppSignal package. To do this, open your application's `package.json`, and find the `@appsignal/nodejs` package:

```js
{
  "dependencies": {
    // ...
    "@appsignal/nodejs": "^3.0.0" // Don't mind the version as long as you use > 3.0
    // ...
  }
}
```

and replace the line with the following code:

```js
{
  "dependencies": {
    // ...
    "@appsignal/nodejs": "github:appsignal/appsignal-nodejs#implement-logging-feature"
    // ...
  }
}
```

## Configure Logging

<Notice variant="warning">
  ⚠️ Log data must not contain personal data, such as names, email addresses,
  etc. It is your responsibility to ensure this data is filtered out before
  being sent to AppSignal, and when identifying a person is necessary that your
  application uses alternative forms of identification, such as a user ID, hash,
  or pseudonym.
</Notice>

### Usage

> To get the logger you need to import AppSignal after initializing the client and set it up with the `.logger()` function. It accepts two arguments: `group` and `severityThreshold`. `severityThreshold` Is an optional argument and if not provided it defaults to `info`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the logger, you need to import AppSignal after initializing the client and set it up with the `.logger()` function. 

The `.logger()` function accepts two arguments: `group` and optionally `severityThreshold`. If `severityThreshold` is not provided, it will default to `info`.
```

```js
// appsignal.cjs
const { Appsignal } = require("@appsignal/nodejs");

new Appsignal({
  active: true,
  name: "<YOUR APPLICATION NAME>",
  pushApiKey: "<YOUR API KEY>",
});

// In other places of your app

> const { Appsignal } = from "@appsignal/nodejs";

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing you meant one of:

```suggestion
import { Appsignal } from "@appsignal/nodejs";
```

```suggestion
const { Appsignal } = require("@appsignal/nodejs");
```

> 
> const logger = Appsignal.logger("app");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We wanted to move this to the example below, right?

Author: My idea was to split the code example in two, so it fits with the explanations from each paragraph. That's why it's like that.

Author: This first block says: 

```
To get the logger you need to import AppSignal after initializing the client and set it up with the `.logger()` function.
```

and the `// In other places of your app` comment clarifies it. We've done the same in other parts of our docs.

```

There are five severity levels available `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error` each of them with its own function with the same name. These functions accept two arguments `message` and `attributes`. Attributes is used for metadata and is optional.

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
const { Appsignal } = require("@appsignal/nodejs");

logger = Appsignal.logger("groupname")
```

Part of the comment above this one.

logger.info("Log message line");
logger.info("User logged in", { user_id: 123 });
```

> Note that if the severity of the message is above the severity threshold set up when initializing the logger, it'll never get to AppSignal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that if the message's severity is above the severity threshold set up when initializing the logger, it will not be sent to AppSignal. 
```

}
```

and replace the line with the following code:

```js
{
  "dependencies": {
    // ...
    "@appsignal/nodejs": "github:appsignal/appsignal-nodejs#implement-logging-feature"
    // ...
  }
}
```

## Configure Logging

<Notice variant="warning">
  ⚠️ Log data must not contain personal data, such as names, email addresses,
  etc. It is your responsibility to ensure this data is filtered out before
  being sent to AppSignal, and when identifying a person is necessary that your
  application uses alternative forms of identification, such as a user ID, hash,
  or pseudonym.
</Notice>

### Usage

To use the logger, you need to import AppSignal after initializing the client and set it up with the `.logger()` function.

The `.logger()` function accepts two arguments: `group` and optionally `severityThreshold`. If `severityThreshold` is not provided, it will default to `info`.

```js
// appsignal.cjs
const { Appsignal } = require("@appsignal/nodejs");

new Appsignal({
  active: true,
  name: "<YOUR APPLICATION NAME>",
  pushApiKey: "<YOUR API KEY>",
});

// In other places of your app
const { Appsignal } = require("@appsignal/nodejs");

const logger = Appsignal.logger("app");
```

> There are five severity levels available `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error` each of them with its own function with the same name. These functions accept two arguments `message` and `attributes`. Attributes is used for metadata and is optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are six severity levels available `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `log`, `warn`, and `error` each of them with its own function with the same name. These functions accept two arguments `message` and `attributes`. Attributes is used for metadata and is optional.
```
